docs(BPopover): Parity pass (#2701)
bootstrap-vue-next/bootstrap-vue-next: apps/docs/src/docs/components/popover.md

</PageHeader>

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverOverview.vue#template{vue-html}

## Overview

Things to know when using the popover component:

- Popovers rely on the 3rd party library [floating-ui](https://floating-ui.com/docs) for positioning.
- Use `teleportTo` and `teleportDisabled` to control where in the DOM the popover is rendered. See the [Vue.js Docs](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/teleport.html) for details. When using Nuxt, `teleportTo` defaults to `#teleport`, set `teleportDisabled` to disable this behavior. For non-nuxt environments, `teleportTo` defaults to `undefined`.
- Triggering popovers on hidden elements will not work.
- Popovers for `disabled` elements must be triggered on a wrapper element.
- When triggered from hyperlinks that span multiple lines, popovers will be centered. Set the `inline` prop to improve the positioning see the [Floating UI docs](https://floating-ui.com/docs/inline) for details.

## Target

The target is the _trigger_ element (or component) that will trigger the popover. The target is
specified via the `target` slot or prop, and can be any of the following:

The `target` prop may be any of the following:

> - A string identifying the ID of the trigger element (or ID of the root element of a component)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A string identifying the ID of the trigger element (or ID of the root element of a component)
- A string with querySelector. (ie. '#toolbar > div:first-child')
```

and `default` slots.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverContent.vue#template{vue-html}

## Custom Classes and Variants

Custom classes can be applied to the popover's title `<div>` by using the `title-class` prop and to
the popover's body `<div>` by using the `body-class` prop:

<<< FRAGMENT ./demo/PopoverCustomClass.vue#template{vue-html}

Similarly, use [Bootstrap's Color and background](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/helpers/color-background/)
utitlities to change the variant of the popover.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverVariant.vue#template{vue-html}

`body-class` and `title-class` is reactive and can be changed while the popover is open.

Refer to the [popover directive](/docs/directives/popover) docs on applying custom
classes to the directive version.

For finer control, use the bootstrap 5 css variables to apply styles directly.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverStyles.vue#template{vue-html}

## Programmatic control via v-model

You can manually control the visibility of a popover via the v-model. Setting it to true will show the popover,
while setting it to false will hide the popover.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverModel.vue

> To make the popover shown on initial render, simply set `model-value` on `<BPopover>` to true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the popover shown on initial render, simply add prop `show` to `<BPopover>`:
```
As commented above native `true` and `false` don't work anymore with vue3 defineModel (it worked with vueuse useVModel that we previously used)

# Popover

<PageHeader>

The Popover feature, which provides a tooltip-like behavior, can be easily applied to any
interactive element via the `<BPopover>` component or [`v-b-popover`](/docs/directives/b-popover)
directive. Popovers can also be created and programmatically controlled via the `usePopoverController`

</PageHeader>

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverOverview.vue#template{vue-html}

## Overview

Things to know when using the popover component:

- Popovers rely on the 3rd party library [floating-ui](https://floating-ui.com/docs) for positioning.

> - Popovers require BootstrapVueNext's custom SCSS/CSS to function correctly.

Reviewer: We don't require custom css, it's just a small hack to get the arrow match the header when position is bottom

- Specify `container` as `null` (default, appends to `<body>`) to avoid rendering problems in more
  complex components (like input groups, button groups, etc.). You can use `container` to optionally

>   specify a different element to append the rendered popover to.

Reviewer: There is no container anymore, it's teleportTo, and it's default undefined. Should use #teleport div for it if needed since that is ssr safe.

Author: Got it. I changed this to note the teleport props and point to the vue.js teleport docs. I'm a little confused about what the behavior is here - it looks like `teleportTo` defaults to `undefined` and `teleportDisabled` defaults to false. The actual behavior seems to be to "teleport" the popover to the DOM directly after the placeholder. Is this intentional? Am I missing something?

```html
<div class="d-flex gap-2"><button class="btn btn-md btn-primary" type="button" id="popover-props">Using
        properties</button><span data-v-d01fe26b="" id="BootstrapVueNext__ID__v-169__popover____placeholder"
        style="display: none;"></span>
    <div data-v-d01fe26b="" id="BootstrapVueNext__ID__v-169__popover___"
        content="Embedding content using properties is easy" class="popover b-popover fade bs-popover-top"
        role="tooltip" tabindex="-1"
        style="position: absolute; left: 0px; top: 0px; transform: translate(688px, 4787.2px); display: none;">
        <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="popover-arrow" data-popper-arrow="" style="position: absolute;"></div>
        <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="overflow-auto">
            <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="position-sticky top-0 popover-header">Prop Examples</div>
            <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="popover-body">Embedding content using properties is easy</div>
        </div>
    </div><button class="btn btn-md btn-primary" type="button" id="popover-slots">Using slots</button><span
        data-v-d01fe26b="" id="BootstrapVueNext__ID__v-170__popover____placeholder" style="display: none;"></span>
    <div data-v-d01fe26b="" id="BootstrapVueNext__ID__v-170__popover___" class="popover b-popover fade bs-popover-top"
        role="tooltip" tabindex="-1"
        style="position: absolute; left: 0px; top: 0px; display: none; transform: translate(818.4px, 4787.2px);">
        <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="popover-arrow" data-popper-arrow="" style="position: absolute;"></div>
        <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="overflow-auto">
            <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="position-sticky top-0 popover-header">Content via Slots</div>
            <div data-v-d01fe26b="" class="popover-body"> Embedding content <span class="text-danger">using slots</span>
                affords you <em>greater <strong>control.</strong></em> and basic HTML support. </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

Author: Got it - clarified the docs in this PR.

- Triggering popovers on hidden elements will not work.
- Popovers for `disabled` elements must be triggered on a wrapper element.
- When triggered from hyperlinks that span multiple lines, popovers will be centered. Use

>   `white-space: nowrap;` on your `<a>`s, `<BLink>`s and `<router-link>`s to avoid this behavior.

Reviewer: we speficaly have a prop inline for this. It's a floatingUi middleware.

Author: Got it - I should have gone back through this after I went through the component data stuff...

## Target

> 

Reviewer: I'd prefer we use the target slot.

I did want to use the default slot for the target and body/title slots for the popover (like some other frameworks do and seems clearer for me), but someone wanted it the other way, so now the body is in default slot and title slot for title, target slot for the target.

Author: I put in a reference to the target slot before the details about the target prop. I think it's still worth keeping the details on the target prop here, though.

The target is the _trigger_ element (or component) that will trigger the popover. The target is
specified via the `target` prop, and can be any of the following:

- A string identifying the ID of the trigger element (or ID of the root element of a component)
- A reference (ref) to an `HTMLElement` or an `SVGElement` via a [Template Ref](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/template-refs.html)
- A reference (ref) to a component that has either an `HTMLElement` or `SVGElement` as its root
  element via [Template Ref](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/template-refs.html)

> - <NotYetImplemented/> A function (callback) that returns a reference to an `HTMLElement` or `SVGElement`

Reviewer: I think we left the function callback out because we couldn't think of a reason for it's existing and I caused some problems with reactivity.

:::info NOTE

The target element **must** exist in the document before `<BPopover>` is mounted. If the target
element is not found during mount, the popover will never open. Always place your `<BPopover>`
component lower in the DOM than your target element. This rule also applies if a callback function

> is used as the target element, since that callback is called only once on mount.

Reviewer: Is this still a problem with vue3?
And we don't have callbacks

Author: Just tested and things work fine if the target is in the DOM below the popover, so I'm just deleting this whole section.

`HTMLElement` refers to standard HTML elements such as `<div>`, `<button>`, etc., while `SVGElement`
refers to `<svg>` or supported child elements of SVGs.

:::

## Positioning

Twelve static options are available for the `placement` prop: `top`, `top-left`, `top-right`,
`bottom`, `bottom-start`, `bottom-end`, `left`, `left-start`, `left-end`, `right`, `right-start`, `right-end` from
[@floating-ui/vue](https://floating-ui.com/) as well as three [auto placement](https://floating-ui.com/docs/autoplacement)
options `auto`, `auto-start` and `auto-end`.

Positioning is relative to the trigger element.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverPositioning.vue#template{vue-html}

## Triggers

By default, popovers are shown by `pointerenter` and `focus` events and closed by `pointerleave` and `blur` events
on the `target` element by default. To override this behavior and make the popover show and hide based
on `click` events, set the `click` prop to `true`.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverTriggers.vue#template{vue-html}

To take finer control of popover visibility, set the `manual` prop and use the
[`v-model`](#programmatic-control-via-v-model) or

> [exposed functions](#exposed-functions) to control visibility.

Author: Added pointers to useToggle and usePopoverController before the manual option.

classes to the directive version.

For finer control, use the bootstrap 5 css variables to apply styles directly.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverStyles.vue#template{vue-html}

## Programmatic control via v-model

You can manually control the visibility of a popover via the v-model. Setting it to true will show the popover,
while setting it to false will hide the popover.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverModel.vue

To make the popover shown on initial render, simply set `model-value` on `<BPopover>` to true:

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverStartOpen.vue#template{vue-html}

Popovers can also be controlled via [Exposed functions](#exposed-functions).

## Close on Hide

The `close-on-hide` prop can be used to have the popover automatically close
when the target is scrolled out of view. The `boundary` and `boundary-padding`
props can be used to control what's considered clipping.

<<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverCloseOnHide.vue

## Exposed functions

`BCollapse` exposes several functions allow manipulation of the state of the component.
These are accessed through the [template ref](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/template-refs.html#template-refs)

> <<< DEMO ./demo/PopoverExposed.vue

Author: Thanks, I've pushed a change to address this. I'm not taking the suggestion as an autocommit because it's unclear from the diff that the surrounding code is correctly preserved.
